Update episode 03 registry (#5)
esciencecenter-digital-skills/lesson-FAIR-software: _episodes/03-registry.md

keypoints:
- "Registring your code in a community registry makes your code findable for others."
---

> ## [Recommendation 3](https://fair-software.eu/recommendations/registry)
>
> Register your code in a community registry
{: .callout}
![recommendation3]({{ page.root }}/fig/recommendation3.png)

## Why registering your Software is important

Registering your software makes it easier for others to find it,
particularly through the use of search engines such as Google.

> Community registries typically employ metadata to describe each software package.

Reviewer: Not everyone knows what metadata is. Maybe you can add a sentence on it. I like the description from Lifewire 'Metadata is data about data. In other words, it's information that's used to describe the data that's contained in something like a web page, document, or file.' after https://www.lifewire.com/metadata-definition-and-examples-1019177

Author: Thank you. I added this definition to the next callout.

With metadata, search engines are able to get some idea of
what the software is about, what problems it addresses, and what domain it is suited for.
In turn, this helps improve the ranking of the software in the search results:
**better metadata means better ranking**.

> ## Community registries are like yellow pages for software
>
> For others to make use of your work, they need to be able to find it first.
{: .callout}

## How to choose a software registry

Community registries come in many flavors.
Choosing a software registry that is best suited for your needs can be tricky.

> Here some tips:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Below are we provide a few tips.
```
to avoid two sentences, next to each other, ending with the colon

- Think about:

>   - How much traffic does the community registry get?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - How much traffic does this community registry get?
```

>   - Is the community registry targeting the audience we are trying to reach?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Is this community registry targeting the audience we are trying to reach?
```

>   - What metadata does the community registry offer?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - What metadata does this community registry offer?
```

> - Ask your colleagues which registries they would use if they were looking for software like yours.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Ask your colleagues which registries they would use to look for software like yours.
```

> - See a list of research software registries [here](https://github.com/NLeSC/awesome-research-software-registries#awesome-research-software-registries-).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Have look at the list of research software registries [here](https://github.com/NLeSC/awesome-research-software-registries#awesome-research-software-registries-).
```

> ## Find metadata
>
> Metadata is sometimes described in the documentation of the registry.
> It is also possible to get them by installing a tool like the
> [OpenLink Structured Data Sniffer](http://osds.openlinksw.com/).
> Alternatively, some search engines have a tool like the
> [Google Structured Data Testing Tool](https://search.google.com/structured-data/testing-tool)
> to provide insight into how they perceive a given website.
{: .callout}

> ## Choose a software registry
>
> Have a look at [the list of software registries](https://github.com/NLeSC/awesome-research-software-registries#awesome-research-software-registries-)
> and pick a registry for your software.
>

> > - Which registry do you choose?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> - Which registry did you choose?
```

> > - Why do you choose that one?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> - Why did you choose that one?
```
